---

layout: default
title: LIGN 170
parent: Teaching
nav_order: 6
has_children: false
permalink: /170

---

# LIGN 170 Summer Session 1, 2023
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## About the Course

This course introduces students to psycholinguistics. We will discuss fundamental theories, explore common experimental methodologies, and engage with the literature. Students will be introduced to different
theories through lectures, in-class activities, independent readings, and written assignments.

This course meets twice a week for 2h50. 

### Learning Outcomes

Course Learning Outcomes
1. Describe fundamental models of language comprehension and productions
    * List processes involved in speech perception, word recognition, sentence processing, text processing, reading and language acquisition
2. Identify common psycholinguistics experimental paradigms, such as behavioral tasks (e.g. acceptability judgements, priming), self-paced reading, and eye tracking.
3. For a psycholinguistics article,
   * Identify research questions;
   *  Explain elements of experimental design using key terminology;
   *  Critically assess results and conclusions in a psycholinguistics journal article
   *  Even if the student does not understand every term or every part of the paper, extract the key components of a paper: research question, hypothesis, experimental logic, methods, results, conclusions.
4. Critique a psycholinguistics article, evaluate its methodology and conclusions, and formulate an idea for a follow-up experiment to address issues identified
5. Gain confidence in engaging with primary literature in psycholinguistics
6. Demonstrate knowledge of course material through written assessment, applying the writing tips introduced in class to improve clarity

[comment]: <> (### Course Policies)

[comment]: <> (### Teaching Philosophy/Positionality Statement)

### Summary of Grade Criteria

| **Assignment**              | **Weight** |
|-------------------------|--------|
| Reading Checks x 8      | 30%    |
| Homeworks x 4           | 40%    |
| Lecture Attendance x 30 | 10%    |
| Final Paper             | 20%    |
| Extra Credit            | 2%     |
|                         | **100%**   |

## Week 1

### Tuesday, July 4th

Lecture
*  slides [[pdf](https://catherinearnett.github.io/assets/Session%200%20Slides.pdf)]
*  Topics:
   -   Scientific Method, QALMRI
   -   the structure of a paragraph
   -   how to read a journal article
* Assigned readings
   -   Altmann, G. T. (1998). Looking towards Babel. In Altmann, G. T. (Ed.). The ascent of Babel: An exploration of language, mind, and understanding (pp. 1-9). Oxford: OUP.
   -   Sedivy, J. (2014). Science, Language, and the Science of Language. In J. Sedivy (Ed.). Language in Mind: An Introduction to Psycholinguistics (pp. 1-7). Sunderland, MA, USA: Sinaeuer Associates, Inc.
* Materials
   -   [Ratner, N. B. & Gleason, J.B. (2004). Psycholinguistics. In Squire (Ed.), Encyclopedia of Neuroscience (pp. 1199-1204). Elsevier.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780080450469018933)
   -   Blumenthal, A. L. (1975). A reappraisal of Wilhelm Wundt. American Psychologist, 30(11), 1081.
   -   Kosslyn, S. M., & Rosenberg, R. S. (2004). The Research Process: How We Find Things Out. In Kosslyn, S. M., & Rosenberg, R. S. (Ed.) Psychology: The brain, the person, the world (pp. 35-71). Pearson Education New Zealand.
   -   [Feldman, L. B., & Siok, W. W. (1999). Semantic radicals contribute to the visual identification of Chinese characters. Journal of memory and language, 40(4), 559-576.](https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=54bea8fdb26d58add160e7499f6ca5d0b8d0363d)
   -   Sarnecka, B. W. (2021). Paragraphs. In  Sarnecka, B. W. (Ed.) The Writing Workshop: Write More, Write Better, Be Happier in Academia (pp. 235-264). Retrieved from osf.io/n8pc3
   -   [WIRED (2019) Astrophysicist Explains Gravity in 5 Levels of Difficulty](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QcUey-DVYjk&t=33s)
   -   Purdue. (n.d.). How to Read a Scientific Paper. Purdue University. [URL](https://www.lib.purdue.edu/sites/default/files/libraries/engr/Tutorials/Newest%20Scientific%20Paper.pdf)



### Thursday, July 6th

*   Materials
   -   Research Methods in Psychology EVALUATING A WORLD OF INFORMATION 3rd ed part 1 (chapter 1, chapter 3)
   -   https://experimentology.io/1-experiments
   -   https://experimentology.io/2-theories
